Thrak-Ghaash Tribe History 


ScumGlug sat in the cave, next to the roaring funeral pyre. He thought about the Blakbluds and wondered what would happen to them after the tragic death of their King, gug'gug. Such a horrible way to die too. darn bunnies. 

As ScumGlug sat there staring into the ghaash, he suddenly heard a voice. The voice said, "Put lat's hand into da ghaash!" ScumGlug, always fascinated by ghaash, and in a somewhat mesmerized state, reached forth and held his hand in the flames. 

Searing pain from the hand shot up his arm, through his heart and into his head! Suddenly, with his mind and heart cleared by the pain, he could feel the presence of the Wargod! The Wargod was speaking through the ghaash! 

"ScumGlug, lat has been a gud and loyal Blakblud. But, da time fur da Blakbluds is over. Me hab taken da king tu me. Disband da rest! Send dem back tu da Shadowclan!" 

ScumGlug gasped, whether from the pain, or this command from the Wargod even he did not know! Getting sudden inspiration, he thrust his other hand into the flames. The pain redoubled, almost causing him to pass out! The Wargod, as if in approval, continued to speak. 

"It is time fur da new Warboss. Wun dat lat can follow. Go tu him and re-pledge lat's lusk wen me choose him. 

And me hab qwest fur lat. Me want lat tu start a ghaash. Me want it tu be da biggest ghaash lat can make! Burn da whole woods if lat can! Me is sending udder ob me minions out tu start ghaash tu! Wen lat has dis ghaash, enter it, and me will tell lat more of lat's new purpose. Take dis sign of me favor, and go!" 

Suddenly the funeral pyre went out! The cave went totally black. ScumGlug pulled his horribly burned hands back to his chest. But when he touched his chest, he realized that despite the pain still filling them, and only slowly fading, that they were not that badly burned! As his eyes adjusted to the darkness, he could see that they were greatly scarred, but almost completely healed! Hoowah tu da Wargod!! 

ScumGlug began to gather his things into his pack. If he hurried, he could make it back to the Orc Fort before night, his favorite time. He would tell the other Blakbluds further up in the cave about what he had learned, and take them back with him. It was time to rejoin the Shadowclan! 

Scumglug left the burial chamber without looking back. If he had, he might have seen the spark float up from the coals to touch the blackend body. He might have seen the flash of fire from one end of the pyre to the other. He might have seen the pyre and body both crumble to ash, and a small flame lick up from the middle. 

It still burned there as the orcs left the cave. 


******** 

ScumGlug flexed his sore muscles. He was getting to be in better shape than he'd ever been - even as a gruntee chopping wood for the mak'rs. Mainly because that was what he was doing again - chopping wood. He stopped chopping and leaned against his lusk to look at his handiwork. He looked across what was a new clearing in the forest. Hundreds of stumps stuck up from the earth. And, looking across the clearing, he saw the pile of trees that he'd been working on for H moons now. 

Most of the chopped down trees were leaning against the trunk of a much larger tree that was still standing - one of the trees that the humies called 'Yew trees'. The rest were piled between that monstrous tree, and the rest of the woods. Once he got the monster tree lit, those logs would carry the ghaash into the woods. He grinned, picturing the woods flaming as far as the eye could see. Well, the Wargod had asked him to build a big fire. Somehow, he felt the bigger the better. 

He shouldered his lusk, and headed for the next tree. Soon, it would be dark, and he could begin... 


******** 

ScumGlug looked into the roaring tower of Ghaash before him. Even a few body-lengths away the heat was overpowering. The hair of the last sacrifice, feebly struggling in his hands, had just caught fire. 

He had finished clomping da trees and stacking them around the monster tree dub moons ago. Since then he had been gathering sacrifices. He had gathered many beasties - deer, goats, pigs, even a few chickens, and had bound and laid them out in preparation. He'd even had the idea of making hollow places between the stacked logs, and he'd managed to trap a bull and a grizzly bear in two of them. But his favorite were the humies. 

He been scouting humie places nearby during occasional rests while clomping trees. There were two farms that were not far away, and each had a small family. Last darkness, he had managed to capture all of them, only losing one of the males that he'd had to clomp because it woke up too soon. ScumGlug had waited till last to get da humies because he knew that it would draw other humies that would start looking for him soon. 

Starting the ghaash had taken a while, with all of the green wood, but once the dry kindling he'd gathered had started burning well, the greedy ghaash had managed to spread to the newly fallen trees. Once those caught, the ghaash needed no more help - it spread by itself. He gleefully watched it spread from log to log, until it had completely surrounded the monster tree. The bull and the bear had both made quite a noise when the ghaash reached them, and the bear had even almost managed to escape. If it hadn't been for a well placed blow with the side of his lusk, the bear would have made it out, though probably not far, as his fur was already flaming. Right after the bear had screamed it's last, the monster tree had finally caught fire. ScumGlug's shouted 'Hoowah!' had startled the bound and gagged humies that were watching the ghaash with wide eyes. 

The ghaash worked it's way along the logs he had laid out to carry it into the surrounding woods while he was sacrificing the other animals. By the time he had thrown the last deer into the flames and it's blackened body had stopped moving, the ghaash had advanced half-way around the clearing behind him. In front of him were burning treetops for as far as he could see. 

ScumGlug had sacrificed the humies one at a time, chanting to the Wargod to take them as his meat. He wasn't sure if that was how one of the namakh's would have done it, but it seemed to work. He placed each humie carefully into the flames with his own hands so as not to distract them from the sensations of the ghaash. He took the gags out of their mouths first, so he could revel in their screaming and pleading as they burned. He started with the younger ones first, as that seemed to make the older ones that were still gagged struggle and glare hatred at him even more. 

So, finally, here ScumGlug stood at one side of a clearing surrounded by flaming trees, with a tremendous tower of ghaash in front of him throwing sparks towards the stars, and one last struggling, breeder humie with hair afire trying to escape the grasp of his blistered and charred hands as he stared into the flames. He was staring because he had just seen something strange in the white hot heart of the inferno before him. In there, something was happening. A door of darkness was opening in the midst of that heat. Even before it had fully opened, creatures started darting out of it. Ghaashhowlers! They yipped happily as they ran out onto the burning logs, some pausing to take bites out of the blacked corpses of the sacrifices. But, before the door had even finished opening, they had again started moving and had run off into flaming woods. 

The next creatures to step out were H of the tall winged beings humies called gargoyles. They nodded to him as they passed, mumbling in their strange tongue. They seemed to be heading off towards the mountains, grinning evilly. 

Finally, the door at it's widest, out stepped an impressive sight! One of the servants of the Wargod himself! The demon, his red hide almost black against the brightness of the ghaash, spread his wings and roared his hate for this world at the sky. 

After a moment, the demon looked back down at ScumGlug and held out his black clawed hand. ScumGlug stood there for a moment staring at the demon, then suddenly realized that he was still holding the breeder humie, who seemed to have fainted. He ripped the gag out of her mouth, shook her awake and lifted her up to the demon. As the servant of the Wargod wrapped his fingers around her, her flesh began to smoke, and her scream was continous. That is, until the demon bit off her head. 

The demon, still chewing, and with smoking blood running down his chest, swiveled his body and pointed one of his massive arms towards the door. ScumGlug looked at the door in the midst of the white hot flame, and then looked back at the pointing demon and nodded that he understood. It was time to visit the Wargod. 

ScumGlug took a deep breath of the hot and smokey air, and then stepped forward into the flames. With his first step, the ghaash licked around him and the pain started. By the third step, he could feel that the bottom of his boots had been burnt through by the white-hot coals he was walking on, and his skin had begun to blister and bubble. The pain too had begun to blister and bubble in his head. He was no longer sure of who he was, where he was, or even what he was doing. The one thing he could feel, besides the pain, and that very clearly, was the will of the Wargod that he step through that door. He kept walking. 

At some point, he realized that he had stopped. He was standing in front of a massive throne made of bones. Both he and the throne were surrounded by ghaash, and while the pain was still great, somehow now it was managable. As he stood there only in death-robes, he assumed that somewhere along the path he'd left his body behind. 

On the throne sat a massive form. Like a much larger version of the demons that were it's servants, it had huge bat wings and black clawed hands. Unlike the demons, it's red skin smouldered with it's own light, and in the eyes and inside the mouth when it spoke, ScumGlug saw what looked like the inside of a white-hot furnace, too bright to look at for long. This was the Wargod. 

ScumGlug bowed and then dropped to his knees. The Wargod's rumbling voice filled the place that now sounded like a cavern because of the echoes, "ScumGlug, lat hab dun as me hab asked lat to. Lat hab burned the body ob lat's leedur, gug'gug, to send me his soul. Lat hab rejoined the Shadowclan and sworn lat's lusk to da new warboss. And lat hab built da ghaash dat me asked for. Dat ghaash is big enough dat me will be able tu send manee ob me creatures tru into lat's world to help lat against da humies. Much ob me power will be able tu enter dat world. Lat has dun gud! 

"But, lats work is nub over yet! Me is sending lat back tu dat world. Lat has now lerned sumting dat me want lat to tell da udder orcies. Tell dem dat me power reaches tru da ghaash! Tell dem dat me iz da Ghaashakh! It iz time now fur dem to gruk dis! It iz time fur dem tu open da doorways fur me power tu dat realm! 

"Lat must tell dem dat dey must thrak ghaash! Gather dose around lat dat will help lat in dis, and burn all dat lat can. Set dat whole world aghaash! Lat will hab tu start small. Me plan has nub quite cum to it's time yet. But bery soon, it will be me time. Bery soon me will take dat world! And me need lat and dose lat can gadder to start da ghaash dat will be doorways fur me power to enter dat world! Duz lat gruk?" 

ScumGlug looked up with pride. His whole heart was in his shouted response, "HOOWAH!!! HOOWAH TU GHAASHAKH!!" 

"Gud, me tink lat gruk," the Wargod rumbled as he grinned evilly. "Now lat go. Listen tu da ghaash. Me will speek tu lat tru da ghaash. Keep it alwayz around lat!" 

The Wargod made a gesture, and the flames roared up around ScumGlug. When they dropped again, ScumGlug saw that he was standing back on his world once more, but nub fleshy still. In front of him was a humie house burning, with HH humies trying to put the ghaash out. Off to one side was a healer humie bending over a burnt body. ScumGlug saw that spirit of the humie standing next to the body, and recognized the mojo the healer-humie was casting. Scumglug quickly walked up behind the healer humie, and as the spell finished, quickly stepped in front of him. Feeling da mojo strike him, he shouted in triumph as he became fleshy again. Luckily, the roaring of the ghaash on the house kept any humies but the healer humie from hearing. 

The healer humie's eyes widened, but before he had a chance to shout ScumGlug reached out and grabbed him by the throat. ScumGlug pulled him closer and whispered, "Dankie humie, me let lat die quick," before snapping his neck. 

ScumGlug looked at the backs of the humies fighting da ghaash and at da lusk dat one of them had dropped nearby in his haste, and decided that the other orcs could wait just a little bit longer to hear the message of Ghaashakh. Besides, he thought, grinning evilly, they'd need some food to celebrate with. 



What Ghaashahk wants is: 
*) burn all lands to rid it of its human influence. This way the land will become pure in order for Ghaashahk to be able to enter the lands fully. 
*) be hostile to everything that is not orc. Clomp it first ask questions later. 
*) burn the bodies of all clomp to send the souls to Ghaashahk. This way he will become stronger and the stronger he is the stronger we orcs become. 
*) be conservative and reluctant to change in old customs and tradition. There is one true way of life and that should not be altered. 
*) Nub-ork things are bad and should be burnt at first occasion to rid the lands of its unpurity. 


From surface-view, the Thrak-Ghaash is seen as one of the most sadistic orc tribes ever encountered. Their love for fire and their hatred of all non-orcs make them seem as demons trapped in orc form. There are two forms of Ghaashie, the Blakblud belief and the Ghaash belief. 

Blakblud belief - Before the Thrak-Ghaash existed, there was the Blakbluds. They were a tribe with deep hatred for anything non-orc. They believed that the more orcs interact with the goodly races of the world, the more their blood would turn from black into red. Orcish blood is black originally and pure red blood would symbolize that all evil is gone and only goodness remains. Their built up rage and hate caused them to be the most ruthless tribe ever seen in the Shadowclan, often killing their own clanmates that seemed to be leaning too far into the red blood zone. 

Ghaash belief - After the Blakbluds revolted and ScumGlug met with the Wargod, he brought the tribe back to the Shadowclan and named them the Thrak-Ghaash. Their belief was that the power of the Wargod was released with any kind of flame. The more fire, the more the Wargod could bring his strength into the world. Thus, the Wargod told ScumGlug his true name, Ghaashahk, and the Thrak-Ghaash became fanatic followers. 

Those are the two beliefs that are generally held true for the Thrak-Ghaash. Some are pyro fanatics and wish nothing more than to set the world aflame so the Ghaashahk is free. Others hold true to their Blakblud past and bring pain and death to anything non-orc.