If there were stars twinkling overhead, it was impossible to see 
through the thick clouds. A light rain fell over Fort Veldon, 
where a miserable looking kobold huddled by the fire chewing on a 
ration, looking forlornly out into the fog. 

Ujahk had been sitting vigil three moons now at the place where 
Kraksha had been resurrected, seeking an answer to the empty 
place in his soul. In other days, he would have gone to Blarg or 
Gruul for counsel, but now... 

Blarg had taken ill, and even now slept as if he would never wake 
again. The shamans predicted that even if he woke, his mind might 
have been damaged by the fever. Gruul, the senior priest of the 
Kraksha Tribe had gone on a spiritual journey, and had not 
returned in some months. 

Meanwhile, there had been a devastating hobgoblin raid into the 
lower caves which had driven many young kobolds out into the 
upper world. While many of his tribe members protected those that 
remained below, the remaining ones were having a tough time 
protecting the young ones driven to the surface. Gruul's 
departure had stunted the tribe's growth... Ujahk had inducted 
several capable kobolds into the tribe in the meantime, but there 
had not been a true Kraksha initiation ceremony in half a year. 

So there Ujahk sat, seeking wisdom from the ancient spirits of 
his people. As of yet, all he had accomplished was to get very 
wet, and miss the warmth of Dujgrik's well kept hearth. Suddenly 
out of the fog, a figure appeared. Ujahk lept up, drawing his 
zult and racing to strap on his shield. Then he saw the figure 
was a kobold, and sheathed his zult. 

Into the firelight Kraksha stepped, looking exactly the same as 
he had on the day he was brought back to life, with the addition 
of weapons and a backpack. Ujahk saluted quickly. "Tribegoth!" 

Kraksha returned the salute, sat down on a log, and gestured for 
Ujahk to do the same. The elder sat in silence for a long moment, 
and then said, "You have some questions for me?" 

Ujahk frowned for a long moment, then looked his elder in the 
eye. "Why have you taken our leaders from us? We try to do your 
work, but we need guidance. We need Gruul!" 

"Gruul will not be returning for quite a long time, possibly not 
in your lifetime," Kraksha said in a quietly serious tone. "His 
tasks lie elsewhere now. You have done a fine job of leading the 
tribe, and I expect you will continue doing so. You have found 
assistants?" 

"Yes... Bogzog and Draagu, but..." 

"But nothing." 

Ujahk sat back. "I see." 

Kraksha snorted. "I didn't come here for worship, or to dispence 
mystic advice. I came to ask your service." 

"My zult has been yours since I swore the oath at Arvakr Fast a 
year ago!" Ujahk protested defensively. 

Kraksha sighed heavily. "I didn't come to speak to Ujahk the ex- 
Wargoth. I came to speak to the kobold the little ones used to 
call Professor Ujahk." Ujahk blinked, confused, and stared at 
Kraksha. "Ujahk, what is the tribe doing?" 

"Well, we have taken lands down in the south of Midgard, in the 
Myrkwood forest. We've been protecting our young ones. Things are 
getting better." 

Kraksha sighed again. "Why do I always choose warriors? Ujahk, 
what good does it do to train a kobolds body but not his mind? 
What good is protecting young kobolds if they don't KNOW 
anything?" 

Ujahk scratched his head. "What do you mean? They all know the 
rules, we test them on that when they come of age." 

"Rules? RULES? What good are rules without context? If all you 
teach them are rules, how are they going to avoid repeating the 
mistakes the tribes have already made?" 

"Of course they won't," Ujahk answered. "We old ones will stop 
them." 

Kraksha cocked his head at him. "And when you die? When Bazg, 
Oliggoth, Mullnuk, and Wuguan all return to the caves for good? 
When every kobo of the first generation has passed away or left 
the surface, what will happen then?" 

"I see your point. But what can we do about that?" 

Kraksha reached into his rucksack, and pulled out three 
weatherbeaten, leatherbound books. Handling them with care, he 
handed them to Ujahk. "These are the journals of Gruul. When 
Blarg lead the first wave to the surface he kept these records of 
what happened and why. He soon became too busy to continue them, 
and they are nearly illegible now." 

Ujahk nodded silently, examining the books. 

"Obviously, one kobold alone can not suceed at this project," 
Kraksha continued. "Which is why you are going to lead the TRIBE 
in recording kobold history, so that future generations may 
learn." 

"We will do our best." 

"Good." Kraksha stood and adjusted his pack. "I'll be going 
then." He began to walk away. 

"Wait!" Ujahk cried out. "There is so much advice I need to get 
from you first..." 

Kraksha laughed. "You want some sort of mystical, beyond the 
grave advice?" 

"Um... well, yes." Ujahk said, feeling silly. 

"I suppose there is one piece of wisdom I can share with you." 
Ujahk leaned forward eagerly. "During bad weather, stay indoors 
and drink your skahin cider instead of staying out in the rain 
like a mushhead." With that, Kraksha walked out of sight into the fog.
