Ohru came crawling out from the rubble. He searched around the remnants of what was Legion's cave but the constant stomping of kobold feet caused a sudden collapse. He had no idea who survived, all he knew is he was glad he had cast his strength buff on himself before the fight was over. 

For months he searched for survivors. "How kan dis happin? All ob da bubhoshist kobos buriid in a diip grayb in da buurz kayb." The few he found that reached the top he cured and sent them on their way back to the south where he heard his brother was reorganizing the clan. He remained in the north in search of his leader and inspiration, Zalblag. There was no other kobold crazy enough to lead us into the deep. Finally, after a bitter winter of frying chickens found in the northern mountains, he began his walk home. 

"Oh skahin! Dar nub inuf ob us Trokakhs lift to honur da guul ob Mallug." Ohru finally reached his home cave where his sister Ohur was busy brewing potions. 

"Ohru!!!! Skahin whar hab lat biin, mih missid lat." She hugged him and spilt her tincture. 

"Mih biin niir da buurz kayb lookin for surbibors. It skahin nubhosh." He sighed and looked up. "But inouf ob da past, how am da klan in da souf." 

"Dim doin bubhosh, Ujahk has biin a vary busy kobo agh him kiipin us sayf, but it sorta nubhosh sittin in da souf all day wif no trokakhs to bring us all obur da uzg." 

"Yub, yub. Mih gruk." Ohru walked to his bed and slept. During the slumber, he had a dream. Ohru saw all of the clans enemies attacking each other and the clan sitting on the side and not fighting. Every now and then one lonely kobold would approach the fight and be wiped out in the massive crowd controlling spells. 

The fight seemed to go on for months, occasionally an enemy clan would try to attack the kobolds on the side of the battlefield. But the forces of Dark Covenant seemed to be fending them off. Ohru became confused, he left as their greatest enemy but now felt they were neutral and understood the clan. Finally, a few kobolds stood up and made a line facing the kobolds. There faces were hazy, but he knew one was Ujahk, he could never forget his brother's shield from the hundred times he banged against it. One of them walked up and began to speak, it was Mallug Trokakh's guul. 

"Bubhosh kobos." Mallug spoke with a booming voice that covered the hoard. "Dis is nub ani tiym to sit agh watj. Lats niid to stand up agh klomp to surbiyb." Then Mallug looked around and pointed at the Trokakhs. "Lats ispishully will niid to bash da inimis moyr agh moyr. Nub wayt for da old kobos to kom bak. Dim am fiilin bubhosh in Valhalla agh nub want to kom bak. Mih followurs am gonna bring lats a triyb ob klompurs, warriurs, surbiyburs." But mih niid somash to tiij dim wat to do. Any volunteers?" Ohru, Snak, and Throqu stepped out from the hazy kobolds. 

"Us will hilp." They said in unison. 

"Bubhosh!" said Mallug with a smile. "Lats must honur mih by bringin a bubhosh klomp to all ob owr inimis. Agh nub stop klompin until dim nub moobin animoyr, until dim nub pik on da littul ashis, until dim want to gib us all dar tribuut... agh din klomp dim agin!" Mallug waved and began to fade into nothingness... ... 

Snak, Ohru, and Throqu looked into each other's eyes. The time had come for change.
