Zagh woke from his dream silently. He could sense Dubz next to him and could hear the barely audible hiss of stone against arcanium as she sharpened her axe. He eased his left eye open to find Dubz with her back to him. It was cold in Jamtland, but they could not risk a fire this morning, the sun would not rise for several hours and they dare not give away their position this close to the enemy. 

Dubz spoke to him without turning, "Git up lat lazy glob, wih got wurk tu du." 

Zagh’s chain mail groaned loudly as he sat up and reached for his helm. Dubz turned and graced him with a warm smile as she handed him a strip of dried lurikeen. Zagh grabbed the jerky and cursed between mouthfuls, "Skahin jurky, if lat gonna iit gobo it shuld bih in a nyz hot stuw, mih tyrd uf diz stuff." 

"Lat ar da ash whu draggd mih out hiir doh, kwit lat komplaynun, if da uddur koboz knuw whut a panzi lat whur, lat wuld nivur hiir da ind uf it," Dubz said. 

He flashed a wicked grin to Dubz, "Will wih kuld alwyz duel agin, mih ivun lit lat kiip sum uf mih mojo diz tym."

Dubz responded with a loud "Hummph" and slammed her axe back into it sheath. Although Zagh loved to tease her, Dubz was more than just his wife, she was his constant companion and defender. 

With a low guttural voice, Zagh intoned the familiar words of power that would make Dubz faster and stronger. He thanked Ymir again for the gift of breath that allowed kobos to run and fight without rest. Dubz began humming a familiar magical tune that always made his heart race. They were ready for travel. 

As they ran in search of their prey, Dubz yelled back to him "Mih still nub gruk why lat nub simply wryt down sum bit of history for da Kraksha Nobs an bih dun wiff it, day gruk wih bin protiktin koboz fur HHH muunz, mih sur day bih happi tu hab uz in dar tryb." Zagh spoke softly, but his words carried even in the wind "Dubz, dar is bubhosh powur in words and mih hab an impurtant stury tu rikurd, if wih kan akkomplish diz, Kraksha will bih proud mih promyz lat." Dubz laughed back at him, "Alwayz da mystical shaman Zagh, will mih happi tu juzt flat sum pinki kobo klompur." 

It happened fast, as it always does, they crossed a snowy hilltop and ran right into the enemy. They still had the advantage of surprise and Zagh quickly assessed the situation, three enemy visible, all kobold killers, one dwarf probably a healer, one human size figure clad in plate mail and there right in front of him was his prey, a lithe looking female human with twin glowing axes. He knew she was dangerous but he also knew that she only picked on young kobolds around Trokah Faste and would run if given the chance... wih will sih how lat du agaynzt sumash lats own syz pinki, he hissed at her. 

She may not have understood his language but she saw death in his eyes. With a single word Zagh called forth a dark poisonous ichor from deep underground and covered the three, injuring and immobilizing them. They were disciplined; both the one in plate and his prey dissolved his magic with their own words of power. Zagh saw the dwarf turn to him and instantly he was paralyzed, but he had been expecting it and both he and Dubzagh shrugged off the magic. The dwarf began to raise his arms for another spell. Dubzagh flashed before him and blue magic crackled around the dwarf. Her axe was out and it bit deeply into his side, the dwarf stepped back slowed by her attack and tried to fumble out his hammer. Dubz followed up her first cut with a vicious overhand arc that finished the fight. 

He could see now that the one in plate was one of those disgusting paladins and it was heading towards Dubz’s exposed back, he had magic that could help her but he had his own problem, the twin axes were out and the human was coming for him. Zagh called down disease to slow his enemy and ran back several paces. When he turned he saw that the human had transformed into a massive bear but just as the axes were swinging at him, the bear stopped motionless, a glazed look in its eyes. Dubz winked at him and parried the paladins attack. Wasting no time, Zagh focused all of his magic on the paladin and in no time he too fell to Dubz’s ferocious axe. 

The paladin had hit true several times and standing behind the berserker Zagh healed Dubz’s wounds with his magic. Dubz raised her axe for a killing blow and the enemy, now back in human form, fell quickly. Zagh hesitated for a moment... he knew he must call upon some truly dark magic to accomplish what Kraksha commanded, he was not afraid but he also was not sure what to expect. With slow precise movements he began the incantation that would keep this human at the edge of life and death. Drawing a ceremonial knife he took a drop of human blood and mixed it in a vial of dark liquid. There was a hiss and then the body disintegrated. Dubz looked disgusted "whut did lat du Zagh!?!" 

"Mih hab dun whut Kraksha kommandid, mih am now ridy tu rikord da history uf da koboz uzing da bluud uf our inimiz, mih grukd diz ash wuld bih purfikt sinz it lykd tu hunt da liddul koboz, an dat rilly gitz Kraksha angry." 

Zagh and Dubz returned to Trokah Faste and Zagh went to their room high in the tower. Zagh reverently set the magical ink to the side of his desk and began to write his story. Periodically, Dubz would read over his shoulder and make him rewrite something from a fikobos perspective.

Tuscaren kobos: 

The history of Tuscaren glacier has been lost to kobos and humans alike. All that is known so far has come from recent adventures into the new world. We know that the glacier has massive underground tunnels covered in ice and that it is inhabited by a race of very strong giants. Mighty shadowclan has pushed past the initial gaurds and with an old kobo explorer named Watarg as their guide, discovered an ancient dragon entombed in the ice. Traveling through the belly of this great beast, kobos have reached a massive chamber filled with giants. No kobo has set foot past this cave but there are rumors that the king and queen of the giants reside in this fortress of ice. 

In the first year following the rebirth of the shadowclan, Ujahk, a Nob in the Kraksha tribe, led another force of kobos to explore Tuscaran again. They too made it into the dargonspine room but were defeated by a Hrimthursa Dominator guarding the right tunnel. Formidable groups were assembled and kobos fought valiantly. In the end Xavi, cousin to the interim Wargoth, was the last to fall to the Dominator. 

During the exploration a scroll was found half frozen in the ice. After much deliberation by clan mojokas it was determined that the scroll must have been written in the language of the giants. It was decided that the clan would have to take one of the Hrimthursa prisoner. The clan’s assassins volunteered for the job and interrogated an Hrimthursa Berg long enough to determine the nature of the letter. What was learned has great import for kobold history. 

The letter details a story of how the Hrimthursa came to occupy their current home. From what our shadowblades could extract we believe that long before the Tuscaren glacier was frozen, it served as an underground fortress for kobos. Apparently, when the ice and snow came so too did the dragon. The letter talks of the great wealth of the kobold nation and the giants continued search for it. The giants carry some of the original armor and weapons crafted by our ancestors. We retrieved one piece of this armor on Ujahk’s trip, a pair of gauntlets now worn by the Trokah Nob, Snak. The giant also tells of how the kobos killed the ice dragon but that in its death the dragon encased the entire fortress in ice. Soon after this catastrophe the giants made their attack and the remaining kobolds were forced to retreat. The giants continually search for kobo treasure and it is reported that the queen wears an ancient artifact given to shadowclan by the gods. We can not be sure of how much of this giant's story to believe but certainly the gauntlets we retrieved are proof that there are items of great power that once belonged to the clan in Tuscaren. It would seem that these are our heritage and our history. Even if the dungeon remains inhospitable to kobos we must retrieve the artifacts stolen from us. 

Recorded by Zagh and Dubzagh, year of the rebirth. 

Zagh let the crimson writing dry, rolled it and placed his seal, the hand of Ymir, upon it. Zagh traveled down the hall to the Kraksha meeting room. He knocked once and heard Ujahk bark at the door, "kum lat it iz opun." 

Zagh walked in to see the Krakshas gathered around a massive table. Neither he nor Dubz had seen this room and he could sense her peeking around the corner with wide eyes. 

Boldly, Zagh placed his writing in front of Ujahk "Mih wint tu da glazier as lat kommandid an ovursaw da intirogation of a Hrimthursa by our bubhosh sniikurz, mih lurnd dat da Tuskaran Glaziur wuz wuntz a klan fortrizz and dat many of our lost trizur an artifacts ar still hild by da Hrimthursa. Mih hab juzt konfirmd mih suspiziun wiff Xakh, doz ruunz on Snak’s gluvz ar anziunt kobo mojo.

Dubzagh continued for him, "Zagh an mih klompd dat nubhosh pinki whu biin klompin our liddul ashs. Zagh did sum mojo an wrot dat history in pinki bluud, mih gruk da crimson liddurz luuk priddy." 

In response Zagh grunted something inaudible about fikobos and pretty writing and explained to Ujahk how Kraksha instructed him to use the pinki bluud to write a history that could never be destroyed or lost. 

To illustrate the magic, Zagh thrust the parchment into an open flame "lat sih it is indistruktabl, da koboz will nibur agin luuz dar history."
 
 
